I would like to try to raise this discussion up out of the issue of textual plagiarism, or even general plagiarism, or even scientific misconduct, to the issue that I think is more relevant to Jeffreyœôòùs project, specifically: What are the responsibilities of editors and peer reviewers? I, for one, do not think that it is the responsibility of either editors or peer reviewers to identify almost any sort of scientific misconduct. They are not equipped to do this; how could they tell when there was plagiarism of any sort, or whether the data was faked up, or anything else? Of course, if someone else notices a problem, it is the responsibility of editors to investigate and take appropriate action, up to withdrawing a paper. But what, then, are the responsibilities of peer reviews and editors? The answer for editors is easier: They manage the process and make final decisions, and they are, in the end, responsible for the presentation of the paper being intelligible, but they are not responsible for the methodological correctness of the science, nor for judging its importance. These analyses are the realm of the peer reviewers, and, indeed at least to my mind, ensuring to the greatest extent possible that the science is important and methodologically correct are the only jobs of the peer reviewers. (They might help with the intelligibility as well, but in the end that job rests at the feet of the editor.) Now, it is clear that no peer reviewer will be as expert as the paperœôòùs author(s) in the authorsœôòùs own field, but they should be selected to be as close as possible so that they can give as careful as possible an analysis of the paperœôòùs importance and methodological correctness. Because the reviewers cannot (almost by definition) be as expert in this domain as the author(s), I think that they should, by the same token, be as ruthless as possible œôòó taking umbrage at nearly anything that seems untoward. Since, in te best case, peer review is a conversation between authors and reviews, disagreements can be worked out, and this reveals what I think is actually the most important role of the editor, that is, to facilitate and manage this conversation as well as the ongoing conversation between the author(s) and the production folks, and, in the best case, the even further extended conversation between the authors and the scientific community (as least as regards the particular paper at hand). This is where I think the editor of XXX fell short more than on any other point. That is, the correct thing to have done would have been to facilitate the conversation between Jeffrey Beal and the authors surrounding the issue at hand, in this case the alleged plagiarism. The editor might also have taken part in that conversation. But I also do believe that whether something rises to the level of being worth opening such a conversation is a judgment call, and here Dr. XXX and Dr. Beal apparently disagree. 